Exercise 1 synchronized and unsynchronized systems

IIOT Course

In this exercise, you will discuss creating an environment composed of synchronous and
asynchronous agents, and focus on how their algorithms run and how their performance is
measured.

1. You must receive from the user the number of agents and the probability that there
will be neighbors between agents, and create a network. Each agent has a unique ID
number.

2. You must create a synchronous simulator.
Agents can, in every synchronous iteration, send messages to their neighbors.

3. Create an asynchronous simulator in which each agent is a thread. Agents can
send messages to their neighbors, and after running the algorithm, each agent
keeps operating only when it receives a message.

4. Implement some algorithm that describes an update for a variable, first in the
synchronous simulator and then in the asynchronous simulator.

5. Write a report on the challenges in implementation and the advantages and
disadvantages of each simulator.

Update Algorithm for a Synchronous Ai Agent System:

    a. Create an update table with a column for the number of agents, a column for the
    distance to the agent, and a column for the number of the agent from which the
    message about that agent was received.

    b. Insert yourself (agent Ai) into the first row, with distance zero and remembering
    that itself sends the following message:
    i, 0, i.

    c. Send the table to all neighbours, not including the last column meaning, not
    including the agent from which the massage was received.

    d. In every iteration:

        d.1. For every row in the table received from neighbor Aj for agent Az.

        d.2. If Az does not appear in your table, add it with distance one more than the
        distance in Aj’s table to Aj. (That is, if in the table of Aj the distance was x then in
        the row it will be like this: j, x+1, z)

        d.3. If Az appears in your table and its distance is greater than the distance in Aj’s
        table plus 1, then update the distance in your table to the distance in Aj’s table plus
        one, and update Aj to be the agent from which the massage will be sent to Az.

        d.4. Iterate over all rows in all the tables you received, send your updated table,
        excluding the last row, to all neighbors.

Questions for the summary report:

1. How many iterations does it take for the system to converge?
(The system converges when the tables no longer change.)

2. Is special synchronization needed in the asynchronous simulator?

3. How should execution in the asynchronous system be measured and compared with
execution in the synchronous system?